in our previous two installments of this
series which is now coming to a close we
built the highest end Machine we've ever
built and decided to unleash it for our
primary work station we're using a 39 60
x4 now we could do a 39 70 X later but
it's in use and the 39 60 X is actually
built for the types of tasks we do but
we also have to test the view and
hundreds that we happen to get our hands
on so we figured we might as well try
them out they're technically built for
things like simulation of the universe
but we have them here so we put them to
work with blender editing videos product
development and things of that nature
it's not really what they're meant for
but they're still good at it in this
video we'll be benchmarking the insane
system we built with brian of BPS
customs who did all the water cooling to
talk about thermals pass for improvement
premiere playback speed scrubbing and
rendering benefits blender render times
and even mining performance just for fun
before that this video is brought to you
by Squarespace
Squarespace is what we've been using for
years to manage our own gamers Nexus
store and we've been incredibly happy
with the choice
Squarespace makes ecommerce easy for
those interested in starting stores but
it also has powerful tools to build all
types of websites photo galleries for
photographers resume and portfolio sites
and small business sites are all easily
done through Squarespace having built a
lot of client websites the old way
before running GM full-time we can
easily recommend Squarespace as a
powerful fast solution go to
squarespace.com slash gamers nexus to
get 10% off your first purchase with
Squarespace
soin overview of the system you might
have seen the build series where we
water blocks the tesla v1 hundreds and
then we assembled the whole computer in
the 11 dynamic exile we ended up with
the gigabyte or as TRX 40 extreme
motherboard and we use the 39 60 extra
now we left the CPU under soft tubing so
that we can easily remove the CPU and we
need to revisit it for CBO testing
typically unlike probably a lot of
outfits one of the things that we've
always been really strict with is not
using our testing parts and production
systems and that's really not to do
anything with aging because a CPU
doesn't really age unless you're running
it overclocked in a way that's bad for
it for running stock it doesn't really
age so it's not to do with aging as much
as it is to do with just accessibility
and I don't want to use the word
laziness but just making sure that your
pipeline is not impeded by stupid things
and personally I've always hated having
to take apart working systems to get a
part out of it to test so we've never
really used things that we need on a
semi-regular basis for testing in our
production systems this is a bit
different though 39 60 X is good enough
we're not going to test it frequently
it'll get hit maybe twice a year with
benchmarks so we just threw it under an
open loop with soft tubing that we can
pull it out when we need to and run
other tests with it and we've got
another tier X 40 chip we can always
throw in there temporarily while those
tests run so it's a good fit the Quadro
P 4000 is in there as our display out
car the test the view 100 do not have
any display capabilities we've set it to
only do graphics it's not doing any
compute the v1 hundreds of doing all the
compute workload and this makes for
really interesting performance in
Premiere now a couple years ago we did a
workstation build where one our pipeline
was different and to premiere was much
different
we're multi-gpu had absolutely no
benefit for us at all and it was really
disappointing that's changed a lot
though now higher core counts do matter
we show this in our CPU reviews where
you actually get faster render times on
something like a 39 50 X or a 99 hundred
K then you would typically have
previously expected multi-gpu also on
the right workloads or just a higher NGP
on the right workloads does matter now
not on all of them so depending on which
youtuber you watch about this topic they
might say that for their workloads it
doesn't benefit at all and that's still
accurate but premier has a lot of
different things you can do with it and
some of those do benefit from different
or higher-end or higher counts of GPUs
and we'll be joined some benchmarks to
illustrate that today with six different
types of videos that we edit on a
regular basis where they all have
different issues that are premiere
centric so that'll be fun to talk about
one other thing before we start getting
to the results I want to mention that
this whole experience has been sort of
eye-opening from a standpoint of
improving our workflow in a meaningful
way that reduces everyone's time
investment in a project but especially
mine because it means that with a
a faster playback speed with less
hitching or stuttering whatever you want
to call it and playback that could cause
errors to get through there are fewer
errors that make it to me in the QC
process and so it's less likely the
video has to be modified one last time
and re-rendered which is just a huge
time sink not a waste of time because we
want the content to be accurate so it's
worth it but if we can avoid a lot of
those steps by just having a faster
system and throwing hardware at it
that's a win for everybody and for
viewers too obviously because the
quality stays high so going through that
whole process has made us want to do
another build you'll probably see in the
next couple weeks we want to do @w 3175
acts built because we have that chip
available and we're probably only
testing it once annually for revisits
and we just did it like a couple weeks
ago so that thing is likely not going to
be retested for six months or more and
we might as well put it to work in a
system and do another production build
with it so planning to do that soon
that'll be a fun build and it won't tie
up all of our AMD parts it's still a
really good CPU it's just we wouldn't
recommend buying it over the threader
parts for what we do but we happen to
have one and then I also want to do a 79
80 XE build to replace my work system
the one I have here in the office
because my systems I think it's a 6800 K
it's got two sticks of RAM in it it's
not even for 16 gigabytes and running
out of memory constantly and normally
doesn't bother me but because we have an
improved editing pipeline now and
because Keegan's come on board basically
full-time at this point it means that if
I want to preview and render a video I
have to wait for someone to be done for
the day and that's just super
inefficient so I'm probably gonna
replace my machine so that I can jump in
on the videos while the other two
systems rakhi bad okay now for that
let's get into the benchmarks to this
the premier benchmarks are probably the
most interesting because the
improvements are in some ways expected
but in a lot of ways we weren't
expecting to see as much of an uplift as
we did see so we'll start with those but
we need to walk through the videos files
that we used first we're starting our
testing with the most relevant measure
of performance for us Adobe Media
encoder times for video projects for
this test we queued up six projects for
real videos that we've published in the
last couple of month
and these were all sent to render these
offer a great mix of different types of
videos that we produce but we'll play
the final renders back on the screen and
while quickly explaining them first
we're rendering a hardware news video
these videos involve mostly a roll or
shots where I'm on camera with some
b-roll cuts of screenshots and the OBS
screen capture or occasionally also some
products b-roll these are used to cover
cuts in the a roll or to provide context
to the story we also add our time stamps
that people seem to like and that adds
some graphics processing load in this
particular hardware news episode we also
had a Gaussian blur on an object on the
table which adds some additional load
this was the one from December 13th our
next video was the cat angels bonus
footage from our charity projects where
we built a PC for a cat shelter this is
the only b-roll footage of the cats and
it went up on the GN Steve secondary
channel which you should subscribe to if
you want more bonus content from us
there are no charts or graphs it's just
raw footage from a Sony a7 three our two
videos represented our most important
ones we included the i7 6700k revisit
and the AMD threader for 3970 extra view
both of which run around 30 minutes and
include extremely heavy chart with the
3970 extra view alone consisting of at
least 21 charts and probably over a
hundred highlights throughout the video
all of that animation burns the GP is
hard and is a good test of multi GPU
rendering finally our last two files are
less intensive we render to build Zoids
here x40 motherboard roundup about 40
minutes of runtime but it's entirely
screen capture with time stamps and only
renders at 1080p 35 megabits per second
although at 60fps our 4k videos the
other ones render at 4k 45 megabits per
second for at least this testing but
60fps as well this is less intensive but
there's also less presence to accelerate
in the builds right video since it's
mostly just rerender in a screencap with
some time stamps added to it the other
one is the disappointment PC 2019 intro
we can show a screenshot of the timeline
for that one too and you did a lot of
work on this intro and it involves tons
of small cuts lots of audio tracking and
special effects added for the distortion
effect seen on-screen with the 10 9 8
exe and elsewhere this is only for the
intro so we didn't render the rest
of the a role for this video here's the
chart finally the most obvious advantage
is in the AMD threader for 3970 X review
where we move from one hundred and
nineteen minutes render time on our
original system or about two hours to
just forty four minutes as processed on
the thread upper thirty-nine 60 X not
even the best option we could have done
39 70 acts and with the two tests levy
one hundreds the GPUs get heavy here
near 100% utilization each for all of
our charts and graphs animation
processing in this video this reduction
means a lot for us to to break this away
from numbers and look at it from a
perspective of what does it mean for a
business it'll hopefully give you some
better insight as to what we're really
looking for when we benchmark CPUs
against each other for blender for
premiere in our reviews so for us the
way this applies typically to give some
context I'm personally up and working
between 20 26 hours straight on major
review is like the 3970 x1 and I've been
able to cut that back a bit this year
with an efficient pipeline that allows
me to dial it down to 18 to 20 hours
instead but the video normally only gets
one chance at the end of it we push all
the way up until embargo lifts so if we
find a small error in it after it's
rendered we won't have time to rerender
it because there won't be enough time
before the embargo lifts this typically
will lift at about 9:00 a.m. for most
embargoes Eastern Time so I'll be up
until about 8:00 finishing the video and
cutting back the render time here to 44
minutes instead of two hours means two
things option one is well obviously you
can go to sleep a bit earlier on these
abusive review days and option two is
that we could re render the video and
still hit embargo lifts if an error did
make it into the render and if it did
need to be corrected prior to
publication so that allows us to
increase our content quality either
immediately with option two or the next
day with option one because I'll have
more rest obviously so that's all very
useful and has a real world impact to
our production capabilities back to the
chart the reduction from 119 minutes to
44 minutes is a time requirement drop of
63 percent the 6700 K revisit saw
similar improvements cutting a surrender
time from 91 minutes to 37 minutes
this one had fewer charts and had
more of an eye-roll mix in it which
contributes to the 59% reduction rather
than 63% hardware news also saw a market
improvement moving from fifty two
minutes to twenty two point five minutes
or 57 percent last time we're close to a
one to one render time now where it
takes a bit over one minute to render
for every minute of length in the video
on the newer system the CAD angels bonus
footage reduced to this improvement to a
43% time requirement decrease as it was
only camera footage without any
timestamps effects or charts or graphics
although we probably should have
benchmarked something to do with cats
the builds would recap also only saw a
40% time reduction as there wasn't much
to accelerate or throw the GPUs at most
of the gains from this and the cat
angels videos would be from the CPU not
the GPUs finally the disappointment PC
is our odd man out for the intro the 39
60 X + 2 x Tesla system actually did
worse here and that was repeatable in
testing after some digging we found that
the IGP hardware acceleration from the
8086 k actually helped notably in this
one this video had a lot of special
effects added and we noticed that the
IGP seems to get more leverage for
application of them than the DGP used it
the end result is that the 8086 k with
its IGP did better than the new system
in this specific test but obviously the
new system on the whole isn't massively
improved especially in those reviews
here's a plot of the 39 60 X builds
component 2 utilization during hardware
news rendering for this one the Tesla
GPUs get heavy utilization throughout
the test you can actually almost see
when our animations are on screen versus
when b-roll is on screen those spikes to
100% are when we're showing a roll with
the timestamps and Gaussian blur on the
screen the secondary GPU is even staying
occupied here typically in the range of
50 to 70% as for the CPU that's also
well occupied at about 60 to 70 percent
load remember that we're always going to
be limited on something and here it
appears to be GPU want it does actually
help to have better GPUs for this type
of rendering unlike what we've seen in
the past with Premiere and Adobe Media
encoder and so the gains are well worth
it for this system build and as for the
disappointment PC build intro our plot
shows the 39 60 X at around 60 to 70
percent utilization during
render with the GPUs all over the place
in general they're around 30% or under
it with a few spikes above the GPUs
don't get much use here but the Seaview
certainly does looking at the 8086 k
build the old one our utilization is
heaviest with the GPU media engine this
is a small GPU in the 8086 case so full
utilization is much more likely than in
an over built GPU where you might hit
another limitation first but it's also
used for quick syncs specifically and
was for a while the best option for
Adobe from your rendering but that
period has since elapsed premier used to
do best with iGPS excited and rendering
that's why we built with 80 86 KS but it
looks like it's actually gains now in
this instance we think that the IGP is
responsible for speeding up the VFX
applied to these scenes
despite being significantly underpowered
versus the 30 960 X the 88 86 K still
isn't that full CPU utilization only
hitting 100 percent when the IGP
hits a scene that it can't accelerate
than that you can see the first third or
so of the render RDX 5,000 utilization
also remains mixed but seems to sit
roughly around 50% during the heavier
part of the render now is a good time to
illustrate the biggest improvement in
our pipeline and that's playback speed
for the editors while editing the video
in the live playback window within
premiere on the 8086 K system we often
had to set playback quality to half 1/4
or 1/8 of full quality in order to
playback at a non stuttering speed for
some certain types of edits premiere is
a wildly variable application and that
depending on what type of thing you're
editing the load on different components
will change and the playback speed will
either struggle or not depend on the
components so it's not as simple as just
Premiere plays back fluidly or doesn't
its premiere with type of editing X does
or doesn't so this was primarily true
with anything that wasn't standard a
role where we'd have some stuttery
issues although a role sometimes also
had trouble will show some playback here
but we also have a few clips of the CPU
and GPU load levels to illustrate where
load is worst the graphs have the most
trouble playing back with all of our
animations and highlights we do in the
playback on the 8086 case system you'll
notice that it's stuttering throughout
playback even at just 1x speed our
editors and I will often play the
videos back at three to four X so that
we can rapidly check them without going
through the whole video at a one-to-one
pace because then you just never get
anything done you'd be watching videos
all day and when it's the same video
that's not fun
speeding it up makes it freeze almost
entirely on the 8086 K system and we can
see that the utilization is 100% on the
CPU at times even at 1x speed the 8086 K
system has hands that could cause a
video QC pass to miss some highlights
which can introduce errors in the
content the 3960 X system meanwhile
plays back without issue so we'll see
every single animation bar come into
frame without accidentally skipping over
them from a stutter in fact we can play
it back up to one a 350 percent total
speed boost before encountering major
stuttering and playback issues so from
baseline 1x speed we can add an
additional 350 percent speed to that and
still not have problems on the 39 60 X +
Tesla built in standard a roll footage
there's not much downside on the 8086 K
it does ok at full playback quality most
times but not always we found that as a
project goes on and as premiere is open
longer with more complex projects it
eventually requires more time to buffer
itself and play a role while I'll jump
meat around the video this sounds like
it would be a memory leak or memory
capacity issue but it's not we think it
might be more related to something like
Mary bandwidth the extra channels would
help here on an HTTP like the 39 60 X
another clip that shows issues is when
we reverse and speed up b-roll we do
this for a few reasons one of them is we
might want to get double use out of a
clip without taking an extra shot as we
can reverse the shot and make it feel
new another is that we can avoid using
b-roll shots that are moving in the same
direction so if we realize that we've
taken a bunch of b-roll that all pans
left to right you can go in and reverse
some of it to go right to left because
it feels a bit better to get things
going in opposite directions reversal of
b-roll significantly slows down on the
8086 K where the CPUs IGP actually
becomes encumbered and can't keep up
this is about 100 percent load on the
IGP with quick sync and if you're
wondering disabling it to try and force
utilization of other hardware never
helped either the CPU just isn't good
enough here whereas thread or freaking
brute force its way through with a heavy
support from the Tesla's
at about 50% load per GPU another clip
is for transcoded or
compressed to old footage which
sometimes gets completely frozen on the
8086 k build this is fixed with a 39 60
X and Tesla system we thought it was a
file issue like a because of the way
we're compressing it and transcoding it
but it was solvable with just hardware
which is great because we don't want to
fight with software and transcode
settings all day we'll leave that the e
post box where we see the CPU on the
8086 cake at the most playback or the
most use is the disappointment PC is
playback where all the VR FX slams the
CPU at a hundred percent load with very
little done by the GPUs or the IGP the
system really struggled to playback the
fire sequence with a distortion effect
the fire is real but the distortion
effects are just FX added in in post
whereas the new system played through it
cleanly without any frame drops and can
play it all back fluidly as for what all
this means it's pretty important we can
reduce errors that get through on chart
highlights as a result of improving
frame rate and previewing but also we
can preview things faster so we get
faster and more accurate that won't fix
instances where the editors get confused
about which H 500 to highlight when
presents it with a chart that has 17
aged 500s on it but that's not really a
problem we can fix that's something that
manufacturers have to fix it also means
from a human factors standpoint that
editing feels less sluggish and is more
efficient overall boosting the
productivity and the ability to get
through a video faster and move on
without feeling slowed down by the tools
you're working with which is just never
really good scrubbing is also improved
here we're transcoded clips used to
freeze while scrubbing through them just
clicking and dragging through them but
the 3960 ex handles them with fewer
stalls it still happens but not as much
the GPUs get used in some types of
playback and premiere and the V 100's do
help accelerate things even though it's
not really how they're supposed to be
used they do help a lot and the CPUs
help in the 3960 acts helps in instances
like clip reversal or speed modulation
especially thermal testing is next on
the list this one will show thermals
during our hardware news render and
premiere will have a more thermally
intensive test next but for this one CPU
temperature runs high anyway we
skyrocket to 60 degrees right away then
hit 80 degrees Celsius that's with an
open loop which makes this seem like a
higher temperature than it
should maybe be but we do have 500 watts
to deal with from the GPUs that said we
recently used the same tube of paste so
that we use for the CPU here not for the
GPUs for another project and noticed
that it had mostly cured and hardened to
a point of being questionable we might
replace the thrown paste on the CPU here
to see if things improve but we can do
that for a separate video it's possible
for these thermals to happen when
sharing a loop with big GPUs but we
think it's also possible that the pace
was too aged to be useful a future
project for this maybe but also just
kind of a good reminder that if you
didn't know you shouldn't be buying
thrown base that you can't really use
reasonably because it does age like some
of this stuff has potentially done but
we'll see well replace it later the GPUs
were running at about 40 to 45 degrees
Celsius including the air-cooled squad
row between the Tesla's but the Quadro
is reserved for just video out basically
it's not doing any compute so that's not
bad overall as for torture thermals and
some power discussion we ran folding at
home and nice hash as our two options
for a complete system load we could
obviously do this a number of other ways
like prime mixed with fur mark but we
decided these two would be interesting
for people to look at with the system
pulling about 1000 watts for the nice
hash workload we're at 80 degrees
Celsius for CB thermals and about 53
degrees for all three GPUs though that's
what the centre GPU GPU 2 sitting idle
for folding at home the GP is ran a bit
cooler at about 41 to 46 degrees Celsius
but the CPU ran at 83 degrees Celsius
this was about a 750 watt load for that
one premier is obviously much less
intensive and bounced between 500 to 700
watts but never held those highs for
very long and that is total system
powers and so it's the only thing we
care about here and also we're talking
the actual measurements this is not a
delta T over ambient or anything like
that but if you were a curious ambient
and this particular room is higher than
our testing room where we control it
more heavily but this one was still
controlled for the period of the test it
was about 22 to 23 degrees Celsius for
the duration of the test and then
finally we have a couple more numbers I
want to talk about before closing out so
I'll just go through this without a
chart for this one but blender we ran
our standard GM logo a blender test that
you see in our CPU reviews
3970 acts or the w 3175 acts revisit
would be the most recent HTT t sepia
test that we did with the blender 2.79 G
and logo render and in that one for
reference the 39 60 X only was about 8.1
minutes to complete the render and the
system we just built using GPUs only is
about 2.8 minutes in blender that's with
only GPUs so this is a thing we've
talked about in the past where GPU
acceleration makes a lot of sense for
blender evie has also somewhat
invalidated a lot of the need for
pre-rendered animations but not all of
it people still need to do it for
highest quality or for packing it into
some other kind of content but GPUs have
a lot of dominance they're the places
where they pose issues are we've noticed
in rendering some of our product images
for a two-dimensional top-down view of
something that you really just want a
whole lot of tiles and you don't benefit
from the just crunching number on chin
power of the GPUs then having a higher
core count CPU is potentially and in our
testing is faster than GPUs or CUDA in
that instance another example of where
it's better is if you are constrained on
GPU memory which we're not here these
are 32 gigabyte cards if you're
constrained on GPU memory and you can
get more system memory like say 128
gigabyte at 64 gigabytes whatever and
your your project in particular
something like in CAD uses a lot of
memory it might help to have the higher
on CPU as opposed to just putting it all
in the GPUs so there are some instances
where that's true
now newer blender can also do CPU and
GPU rendering simultaneously on the same
frame whereas before what we do is
render frames 1 through 50% on the CPU
and 51% through a hundred percent on the
GPUs now it can do it in the same frame
the problem is you can only set one tile
size you want the GPS to work anywhere
close to efficiently it does need a
larger tile size the CPU can cope with
the larger tile size okay but once you
have as many threads thread Ripper has
it actually starts to impede the process
because the CPU is assigned one tile for
each thread so if you're sitting on 48
or 64 tiles and it's really slowly
moving through those especially at the
larger sizes
what happens is there's not really any
tiles left for the GPS to have because
they're just gonna do one each and
they're really fast and they burn
through them but they only get one each
where's the CPU is much slower but it
works on however many 48 64 at a time
whatever it is depend on the thread so
it's a weird problem it's kind of funny
but hopefully in future updates blender
can just make it so you give us special
sizes so you can give the CPU smaller
blocks that way it doesn't just take up
the entire image and hog it all process
it slowly while the GPUs are left with
nothing assigned to them so that they
don't actually do anything in that case
so there's no way to split the workload
on a tile once it's been once it's been
reserved by the component that's
processing it so that means that it's
actually faster to use only GPU and not
GPU plus CP right now but hopefully
blender adds a way to do a tile size for
CPU and a tile size for GPU
independently of each other for the
future finally just for fun
we ran nice hash on this and if you're
curious what to test the view 100s make
and 3960 X it was about two dollars and
63 cents total per day in mining and
that's not counting the power
consumption which is upwards of a
thousand watts so even at ten cents a
kilowatt-hour that's not great return so
something like 73 to 76 times per day
per GPU a dollar six to a dollar thirty
six Percy feet for the 39 60 X just not
worth it and if you want to generate he
you don't just be better off doing like
folding at home or something so anyway
there's the numbers for that we're not
experts in mind don't really know
anything about it didn't tune it but ran
nice hash and that's what came out of it
if you care just just for some fun
numbers conclusion for this it's really
excellent performance to the extent that
we're going to work on another
production machine as soon as we're back
from CES and maybe a second one will do
probably a livestream of building at
least one of those if not both so check
back for that after CES it's really
making life easier in ways that weren't
necessarily predictable
since premier has never really performed
in a way that made sense for higher end
hardware this reduces errors overall so
they don't make it all the way to the
end of the pipeline and cause a whole
rerender of the video because I'm
previewing the video now you're less
likely to hit a skipped set of frames
that might jump over a highlighter in
animation
it is allowing the renders to finish
upwards of three times the speed for
some of them which means being done at
the end of the day sooner and as the
difference between going to bed or not
on a reviews day so that's actually a
really big deal for me
yeah reducing the amount of time spent
on each content piece by potentially a
couple hours which is massive when
you're totally taxed for time so much
bigger benefit than expected we
obviously knew about the quality life
improvements but you have to remember
that premiere for a while was better
with an 80 86 K or something and an IGP
than it was with HDTV CPUs the 1950 X
was garbage for the type of premiere
work we did way worse than an 80 86 K
especially with an i GP for our
workloads so that's changed a lot some
of that's premiere smell that's Zen too
but either way it really wasn't worth
upgrading until this year because you
were better on an ad 86 K so anyway
that's that's where it is now it's nice
to see stuff getting used properly by
premier and nice to see architectures
that are actually good for this type of
work by any company but Andy especially
coming in at the final hour of the year
with this so that's it for this one
thanks for watching it's fun to do if
you're interested in ice type of content
make sure you subscribe to catch our W
3175 X production build as far as the
benchmark and one note I did forget to
mention is that in the tests we did for
system aver system B it's obviously just
real-world benchmarks for us more than
anything because none of it there's not
really any controls it's a system with
all of its own discrete part it's
another system with all of its own
discrete parts they're not sharing any
parts so you kind of get a look at just
two systems if you want more controlled
data check our reviews for that
subscribe for more gonna start at
cameras X's net to help side directly or
patreon.com/scishow sax is to get some
behind-the-scenes videos or bonus ask G
ends we'll see you all next time
[Music]